“Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will.” -Mahatma Gandhi
“Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it.” -Henry David Thoreau
“If you want something you’ve never had, you must be willing to do something you’ve never done.” -Thomas Jefferson
"The body achieves what the mind believes.” -Anonymous
“Once you are exercising regularly, the hardest thing is to stop it.” -Erin Gray
“If you don’t make time for exercise, you’ll probably have to make time for illness.” -Robin Sharma
“Dead last finish is greater than did not finish, which trumps did not start.” -Anonymous
“Rome wasn’t built in a day, but they worked on it every single day.” -Anonymous
“Your body can stand almost anything. It’s your mind that you have to convince.” -Anonymous
“All progress takes place outside the comfort zone.” -Michael John Bobak
“What seems impossible today will one day become your warm-up.” -Anonymous
“Never give up on a dream just because of the time it will take to accomplish it. The time will pass anyway.” -Earl Nightingale
“I don’t count my sit ups. I only start counting when it starts hurting because they’re the only ones that count.” -Muhammad Ali
“Go the extra mile. It’s never crowded.” -Wayne Dyer
“If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change.” -Anonymous
“You just can’t beat the person who never gives up.” -Babe Ruth
“Take care of your body. It’s the only place you have to live.” -Jim Rohn
“Do something today that your future self will thank you for.” -Sean Patrick Flanery
“You did not wake up today to be mediocre.” -Anonymous
“Push harder than yesterday if you want a different tomorrow.” -Anonymous
“Success is usually the culmination of controlling failure.” -Sly Stallone
“Your health account, your bank account, they’re the same thing. The more you put in, the more you can take out.” -Jack LaLanne
“Don’t say ‘I can’t.’ Say, ‘I presently struggle with’.” -Tony Horton
“Motivation is what gets you started. Habit is what keeps you going.” -Jim Ryun
“We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence then is not an act but a habit.” -Aristotle
“Your body can stand almost anything. It’s your mind that you have to convince.” -Andrew Murphy
“Nobody who ever gave his best regretted it” -George Halas
“There are two types of pain in this world: pain that hurts you, and pain that changes you.” -Anonymous
“Ability is what you’re capable of doing. Motivation determines what you do. Attitude determines how well you do it.” -Lou Holtz
“When you hit failure, your workout has just begun.” -Ronnie Coleman
"The first wealth is health." -Ralph Waldo Emerson
"Believe you can and you're halfway there." - Theodore Roosevelt
"Fitness is not about being better than someone else. It's about being better than you used to be." -Anonymous
“The secret of getting ahead is getting started.” -Mark Twain
“You can either suffer the pain of discipline or the pain of regret.” -Jim Rohn
“I hated every minute of training, but I said, ‘Don’t quit. Suffer now and live the rest of your life as a champion.'” -Muhammad Ali
“To keep the body in good health is a duty… otherwise we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear.” -Buddha
“When it comes to eating right and exercising, there is no ‘I’ll start tomorrow’.” -VL Allineare
“We do not stop exercising because we grow old we grow old because we stop exercising” -Dr. Kenneth Cooper
“It never gets easier, you just get better.” -Anonymous
"Health is a state of complete harmony of the body, mind, and spirit. When one is free from physical disabilities and mental distractions, the gates of the soul open." -B.K.S. Iyengar
"To keep the body in good health is a duty... otherwise, we shall not be able to keep our mind strong and clear." -Buddha
"The greatest wealth is health." -Virgil
"It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver." -Mahatma Gandhi
"A healthy outside starts from the inside." -Robert Urich
"Your body hears everything your mind says." -Naomi Judd
"Physical fitness is not only one of the most important keys to a healthy body, it is the basis of dynamic and creative intellectual activity." -John F. Kennedy
"Health and cheerfulness naturally beget each other." -Joseph Addison
"Take care of your body. It's the only place you have to live." -Jim Rohn
"He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything." -Thomas Carlyle