There are three macronutrients that provide your body with the energy and raw
materials to continue functioning: carbohydrates, fats, and protein.
Carbohydrates (carbs) include fiber, sugar, and starch and serve many
functions in your body.
Likewise, there are several types of fats, from omega-3 fatty acids to
triglycerides, that have a number of effects on your body, both good and bad.
The third type of macronutrient — protein — is no different, in that it’s essential
for your body. Proteins are responsible for many things like growing new tissue
and serving as messengers called hormones.
Proteins are made from chains of molecules called amino acids. Amino acids
are like the letters of the alphabet and proteins are like words. Your body can
string them together into complex sentences that say things like “make new cells” and “destroy this virus.”
There are hundreds of amino acids that exist in nature, but you need just 20 of
these to make all of the different types of protein in your body.
When you consume protein, either from plants or from meat, you’re really
consuming amino acids that your body can then rearrange into whatever
proteins you need at that time.
So how do the different sources of protein compare to each other?
The emotional signs of anxiety — nervousness, restlessness, distraction, a
clenched jaw — almost always occur in tandem with physical symptoms such as
dry mouth, nausea, or sweaty hands, which can then magnify our anxious
feelings. When anxiety crosses a line, however — unique to each individual —
everyday stressors can translate into disruptive physical symptoms that make it
difficult to live normally.
Profound anxiety can provoke everything from dizziness and diarrhea to heartpounding panic that leaves you gasping for breath. "If you’re feeling
lightheaded, your heart racing and chest tightening, it really contributes to a
sense that something terrible is going to happen," says Jacqueline Bullis, an
assistant psychologist in the Division of Depression and Anxiety Disorders at
Harvard-affiliated McLean Hospital.
"But physical symptoms themselves aren’t the problem," Bullis says. "It’s really
the way we respond to them. We want people to learn that these distressing
physical sensations aren’t dangerous and they can learn ways to tolerate them."
Anxiety in itself can prove useful under the right circumstances — spurring us,
for example, to make sure we’re prepared for that big presentation at work.
"When it’s at that Goldilocks spot where it’s not too intense or too suppressed,
anxiety motivates us," Bullis says. "If we were never anxious, we wouldn’t get
anything done."
Extreme physical sensations, however, stem from the body’s fight-or-flight
response. In those moments, we might react the same way to a perceived
threat — like public speaking — as we would to real danger, such as a home
intruder. During an anxiety attack, symptoms can turn so dramatic that people
believe they’re having a heart attack or stroke.
On March 12, most Americans will observe the start of daylight saving time
(DST) and "spring forward" by setting their clocks one hour ahead. (The
exceptions are people living in Arizona and Hawaii.)
DST lasts from mid-March until early November when the clocks turn back an
hour and return to standard time. During DST, people can enjoy more time in
the sunlight in the evenings. But that convenience comes at a perceived"That one-hour change may not seem like much, but it can wreak havoc on
people’s mental and physical well-being in the short term," says Dr. Charles
Czeisler, professor of sleep medicine at Harvard Medical School’s Division of
Sleep Medicine.
