Video game playing causes no harm to young children's cognitive abilities,
study finds
New research findings challenge the fears parents have been hearing for years
that children who spend hour after hour playing video games, or choose games
of certain genres, would manifest unhealthy results in their cognitive ability.
"Our studies turned up no such links, regardless of how long the children
played and what types of games they chose," said Jie Zhang, associate
professor of curriculum and instruction at the University of Houston College of
Education and a member of the research team. The work is published in the
Journal of Media Psychology.
In reaching the conclusions, researchers examined the video gaming habits of
160 diverse urban public-school preteen students (70% from lower income
households), which represents an age group less studied in previous research.
Participating students reported playing video games an average of 2.5 hours
daily, with the group's heaviest gamers putting in as much as 4.5 hours each
day.
The team looked for association between the students' video game play and
their performance on the standardized Cognitive Ability Test 7, known as
CogAT, which evaluates verbal, quantitative and nonverbal/spatial skills. CogAT
was chosen as a standard measure, in contrast to the teacher-reported grades
or self-reported learning assessments that previous research projects have
relied on.
"Overall, neither duration of play nor choice of video game genres had
significant correlations with the CogAT measures. That result shows no direct
linkage between video game playing and cognitive performance, despite what
had been assumed," said May Jadalla, professor in the School of Teaching and
Learning at Illinois State University and the study's principal investigator.
But the study revealed another side of the issue, too. Certain types of games
described as helping children build healthy cognitive skills also presented no
measurable effects, in spite of the games' marketing messages.
"The current study found results that are consistent with previous research
showing that types of gameplay that seem to augment cognitive functions in
young adults don't have the same impact in much younger children," said C.
Shawn Green, professor in the Department of Psychology at the University ofWisconsin-Madison.
Does this mean the world can play on? Maybe, the research suggests. But the
experts also caution that gaming time took the heaviest players' away from
other, more productive activities -- homework, to be specific -- in a process
psychologists call displacement. But even in those cases, the differences were
slight between those participants and their peers' CogAT measures of cognitive
abilities.
"The study results show parents probably don't have to worry so much about
cognitive setbacks among video game-loving children, up to fifth grade.
Reasonable amounts of video gaming should be OK, which will be delightful
news for the kids. Just keep an eye out for obsessive behavior," said Zhang.
"When it comes to video games, finding common ground between parents and
young kids is tricky enough. At least now we understand that finding balance in
childhood development is the key, and there's no need for us to over-worry
about video gaming."
The study was funded by the National Science Foundation

