A pill-free way to treat anxiety
For people with an anxiety disorder — chronic, intense worry that makes it hard
to concentrate or sleep — first-line treatments are often medications called
antidepressants. They can have side effects such nausea, fatigue, headache, or
sexual dysfunction. But a randomized trial published online Nov. 9, 2022, by
JAMA Psychiatry found that a pill-free approach might be just as effective for
reducing anxiety symptoms. Scientists randomly assigned almost 300 people
to either take an antidepressant called escitalopram (Lexapro) every day or
participate in a mindfulness-based stress reduction program. The program
included 45 minutes of daily meditation at home and a weekly 2.5-hour inperson class with an instructor. Participants learned a number of mindfulness
techniques, such as breath awareness and stretching designed to bring
awareness to the body. After eight weeks, both groups had similar results,
reducing anxiety symptoms by about 30% over that period.

The research, published this week in JAMA Network Open, compared magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) brain scans of older adults who had high blood
pressure between the ages of 30 to 40 with older adults who had normal blood
pressure.
The researchers found that the high blood pressure group had significantly
lower regional brain volumes and worse white matter integrity. Both factors are
associated with dementia.
The research also showed that the negative brain changes in some regions -such as decreased grey matter volume and frontal cortex volume -- were
stronger in men. They note the differences may be related to the protective
benefits of estrogen before menopause.
"Treatment for dementia is extremely limited, so identifying modifiable risk and
protective factors over the life course is key to reducing disease burden," said
first author Kristen M. George, an assistant professor in the Department of
Public Health Sciences.
"High blood pressure is an incredibly common and treatable risk factor
associated with dementia. This study indicates hypertension status in early
adulthood is important for brain health decades later," George said.
High blood pressure prevalent in U.S.
High blood pressure, also known as hypertension, is blood pressure that is
higher than normal. A normal blood pressure level is less than 130/80 mmHg.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 47% of adults inthe United States have hypertension.
The rate of high blood pressure varies by sex and race. About 50% of men have
high blood pressure compared to 44% of women. The rate of hypertension is
about 56% in Black adults, 48% in white adults, 46% in Asian adults and 39%
in Hispanic adults. African Americans ages 35 to 64 years are 50% more likely
to have high blood pressure than whites.
Data from healthy aging studies
The researchers looked at data from 427 participants from the Kaiser Healthy
Aging and Diverse Life Experiences (KHANDLE) study and the Study of Healthy
Aging in African Americans (STAR). This provided them with health data from
1964 to 1985 for a diverse cohort of older Asian, Black, Latino and white adults.
They obtained two blood pressure readings from when the participants were
between the ages of 30 to 40. This allowed them to determine if they had been
hypertensive, transitioning to hypertensive or had normal blood pressure in
young adulthood.
MRI scans of the participants conducted between 2017 and 2022 allowed them
to look for late-life neuroimaging biomarkers of neurodegeneration and white
matter integrity.
A significant reduction in cerebral gray matter volume is seen in both men and
women with hypertension but is stronger in men.
Brain scans reveal differences
Compared to participants with normal blood pressure, the brain scans of those
transitioning to high blood pressure or with high blood pressure showed lower
cerebral gray matter volume, frontal cortex volume and fractional anisotropy (a
measure of brain connectivity). The scores for men with high blood pressure
were lower than those for women.
The study joins a growing body of evidence that cardiovascular risk factors in
young adulthood are detrimental to late-life brain health.
The researchers note that due to the sample size, they could not examine racial
and ethnic differences and recommended interpreting results regarding sex
differences with caution. They also note that the MRI data was only available
from one time-point late in life. This can only determine physical properties like
volumetric differences, not specific evidence of neurodegeneration over time.
"This study truly demonstrates the importance of early life risk factors, and that
to age well, you need to take care of yourself throughout life -- heart health is
brain health," said Rachel Whitmer, senior author of the study. Whitmer is a
professor in the departments of Public Health Sciences and Neurology and
chief of the Division of Epidemiology. She's also the associate director of the
UC Davis Alzheimer's Disease Center.
"We are excited to be able to continue following these participants and to
uncover more about what one can do in early life to set yourself up for healthy
brain aging in late life," Whitmer said.
Additional authors of the study include Pauline Maillard, Evan Fletcher, Dan M.
Mungas and Charles DeCarli, UC Davis; Paola Gilsanz, Kaiser Permanente
Division of Research; Rachel L. Peterson, University of Montana, Missoula;
Joseph Fong and Elizabeth Rose Mayeda from UCLA; L. Barnes from Rush
Medical College; M. Maria Glymour from UCSF.

A