Go toward the light
Research suggests that changing our clocks twice a year can have various
health consequences. Of the two, springing ahead one hour tends to be more
disruptive. That hour change can upset our circadian rhythms, the body’s
natural 24-hour cycles regulating key functions like appetite, mood, and sleep.
Circadian rhythms largely depend on light exposure. The hour transition in the
spring initially causes darker mornings and lighter evenings. Less morning light
can decrease levels of the mood-boosting hormone serotonin. In contrast,
exposure to light later in the evening can delay the production of melatonin, the
hormone that helps you fall asleep.
Many people also have trouble adjusting their sleep schedule to the new time.
For the first few days or even a week, they may go to bed later or wake up
earlier than usual, which can cause sleep deprivation. One study found that the
average person gets 40 minutes less sleep on the Monday after DST begins
compared with other nights of the year.
"Disrupted sleep can cause people to feel fatigued, groggy, and less focused,"
says Dr. Czeisler. This may explain, in part, the 6% rise in car accidents
following the spring time change, according to a 2020 study in the journal
Current Biology. Poor sleep caused by DST also can exacerbate existing
problems like depression, anxiety, and seasonal affective disorder.
Prepare for the switch
People can take steps to make the hour change less daunting to their bodies
and mind. Dr. Czeisler offers several different approaches:
Alter your bedtime. About three days before the time change, go to bed and
wake up 10 to 15 minutes earlier than usual. The next night, aim for 20 to 30
minutes, and then 30 to 45 minutes on the third night. "By the end of this
period, your body would have adjusted to that lost hour, and you won’t have the
stress of trying to quickly catch up on sleep," says Dr. Czeisler.
Take afternoon naps. If you feel tired in the afternoons after DST starts, take
scheduled midday naps for 20 to 30 minutes (napping longer than that can
make you feel even more groggy).
Get more light. During the first week after the time change, try to get about 15
minutes of exposure to morning light, which can help maintain your circadian
rhythms. Another option is to use a light box that produces a bright white light.
Choose a light box with 10,000 lux exposure (lux is a measure of light intensity).
Sit about 12 inches away for up to 30 minutes. Keep your eyes open, but don’t
look directly at the light. Spend the time reading, writing, or just being present.
Delay your day. For several days after the time change, postpone beginning
your daily routine for an hour. For example, if you go for your morning walk at 8
a.m., wait until 9 a.m. "Your internal clock is still running an hour behind, so you
give it a chance to adjust," says Dr. Czeisler. Gradually shorten your start time
by 10 or 15 minutes; within a week, your body’s clock should be reset to the
new time.Curb the alcohol and caffeine. Cut back on drinking alcohol and caffeinated
beverages several days before and after the time change, as they can disrupt
your sleep.

