Broccoli consumption protects gut lining, reduces disease, in mice
Broccoli is known to be beneficial to our health. For example, research has
shown that increased consumption of the cruciferous vegetable decreases
incidence of cancer and type 2 diabetes. In a recent study, researchers at Penn
State found that broccoli contains certain molecules that bind to a receptor
within mice and help to protect the lining of the small intestine, thereby
inhibiting the development of disease. The findings lend support to the idea
that broccoli truly is a 'superfood.'
"We all know that broccoli is good for us, but why? What happens in the body
when we eat broccoli?" said Gary Perdew, H. Thomas and Dorothy Willits
Hallowell Chair in Agricultural Sciences, Penn State. "Our research is helping to
uncover the mechanisms for how broccoli and other foods benefit health in
mice and likely humans, as well. It provides strong evidence that cruciferous
vegetables, such as broccoli, cabbage, and Brussels sprouts should be part of
a normal healthy diet."
According to Perdew, the wall of the small intestine allows beneficial water and
nutrients to pass into the body but prevents food particles and bacteria that
could cause harm. Certain cells that line the intestine -- including enterocytes,
which absorb water and nutrients; goblet cells, which secrete a protective layer
of mucus on the intestinal wall; and Paneth cells, which secrete lysosomes that
contain digestive enzymes -- help to modulate this activity and keep a healthy
balance.
In their study, which published in the journal Laboratory Investigation, Perdew
and his colleagues found that molecules in broccoli, called aryl hydrocarbon
receptor ligands, bind to aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), which is a type of
protein called a transcription factor. This binding, they found, initiates a variety
of activities that affect the functions of intestinal cells.
To conduct their study, the researchers fed an experimental group of mice a
diet containing 15% broccoli -- equivalent to about 3.5 cups per day for
humans -- and fed a control group of mice a typical lab diet that did not contain
broccoli. They then analyzed the animals' tissues to determine the extent to
which AHR was activated, as well as the quantities of various cell types and
mucus concentrations, among other factors, in the two groups.
The team found that mice that were not fed broccoli lacked AHR activity, which
resulted in altered intestinal barrier function, reduced transit time of food in the
small intestine, decreased number of goblet cells and protective mucus,
decreased Paneth cells and lysosome production, and decreased number of
enterocyte cells.
"The gut health of the mice that were not fed broccoli was compromised in a
variety of ways that are known to be associated with disease," said Perdew.
"Our research suggests that broccoli and likely other foods can be used asnatural sources of AHR ligands, and that diets rich in these ligands contribute
to resilience of the small intestine."
More broadly, added Andrew Patterson, John T. and Paige S. Smith Professor of
Molecular Toxicology and of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, "these data
suggest that dietary cues, relayed through the activity of AHR, can reshape the
cellular and metabolic repertoire of the gastrointestinal tract."
Other authors on the paper include Xiaoliang Zhou, Debopriya Chakraborty, Iain
A. Murray, Denise Coslo, Zoe Kehs, Anitha Vijay, Carolyn Ton, Dhimant Desai
and Shantu G. Amin.
The National Institutes of Health Grants, U.S. Department of Agriculture and
Penn State Cancer Institute supported this research.

