Pouring from an empty cup? Three ways to refill emotionally
Nurturing yourself in small ways can help ease burnout and exhaustion.
It’s hard to care about anything when you feel exhausted, burned out, or ragged
around the edges. Your once-fiery enthusiasm may seem more like charred
rubble due to overwhelming family responsibilities, a job that drains you, or
financial struggles. Or maybe an illness, the uncertainty and disruptions of the
age we live in, or a combination of factors has left you feeling as if you have
precious little to give.
"What you’re experiencing is burnout. It’s real and it can lead to depression,
anxiety, relationship damage, and an inability to function at home or at work,"
says Dr. Marni Chanoff, an integrative psychiatrist with Harvard-affiliated
McLean Hospital.
Take heart: With time and effort, you can refill your cup, slowly adding back a
bit of the energy and joie de vivre you’ve been missing. Here are three ways to
start.

1. Carve out time for yourself
Taking time for yourself isn’t a luxury; it’s essential to self-care. "You need to
slow down and give yourself the opportunity to rest and rejuvenate," Dr.
Chanoff says, "Schedule it if you have to, starting with 10 or 15 minutes, a
couple of times a day."
How can you reclaim precious minutes in an overly full schedule? "Look at your
day, week, or month, and be discerning about how many things you say ‘yes’ to
in one period of time. Give yourself permission to say ‘no thank you’ to things
that deplete you or don’t serve you," Dr. Chanoff says.
Make small moments count: choose what makes you feel at peace. For
example, have a cup of tea, or simply lay a blanket or mat on the floor at home
or work and lie on your back. Don’t look at your phone or email. "You want to
tell your body to take a break. It helps you reset and back away when stress
draws you in," Dr. Chanoff explains.

2. Commit to better health
A strong body helps balance the stressful situations that have caused your
burnout. The basic recipe for good health includes:

Exercise. Moderate intensity exercise, the kind that works the heart
and lungs, releases important chemicals that help regulate mood,
sleep, and many body systems. Aim for at least 150 minutes of
exercise per week, which amounts to about 22 minutes a day. Start

with just a few minutes a day if it’s all you can do. It doesn’t have to be
fancy. "It can be any movement that brings you joy, like dancing, yoga,
or brisk walking," Dr. Chanoff suggests.
A good diet. Eating lots of junk food (typically full of sugar, salt, and
unhealthy saturated fat) fuels chronic stress, fatigue, depression, and
anxiety. Choose more unprocessed foods such as vegetables, fruits,
whole grains, legumes, lean proteins (fish or poultry), and unsaturated
fats (such as avocados or olive oil). If time is an issue, Chanoff
suggests batch-cooking simple, healthy foods you can have several
days of the week. (Lentil or bean soup is a good one-pot meal. Throw
in as many vegetables as you can.)
 Sleep. Insufficient sleep affects overall health, concentration, and
mood. Try to sleep seven to nine hours per night. "It helps to wind
down an hour or two before you fall asleep. And practice good sleep
hygiene: turn off your phone, keep your room cool and dark, and go to
sleep and wake up at the same time each day," Dr. Chanoff advises.

3. Surround yourself with comfort
Hygge (pronounced HOO-ga) is the Danish concept of cozy comfort that brings
happiness and contentment. Folks in Denmark know a thing or two about
finding sunshine in cold dark months.
To practice hygge, surround yourself with people, activities, and things that
make you feel cozy, loved, happy, or content. Go simple: spend time with your
favorite people, add a small vase of flowers to your space, don fuzzy slippers
once home, eat a treasured comfort food, or listen to a favorite song.
More ideas to try:

Light a candle.
Get under a heated blanket.
Frame a photo of a happy time.
Have breakfast in bed.
Use pretty table linens.
Indulge in art (check out various works at museums online).
Stand still outside to listen to the sounds of nature.
Curl up in a cozy chair.
Window-shop in your favorite store.
Wear a soft sweater that feels good on your skin.
Use a silk or satin pillowcase on your bed pillow.
Take a warm bath.
Get an oil diffuser with a scent that reminds you of a place you love,
like the beach or a pine forest.
