Super-sized nanocage could deliver bigger drug cargoes
Building a bigger box
Nanocages are tiny artificial containers that can be used to deliver therapeutics
to a target destination in the body. But some drug molecules are like gifts that
are too big for a standard-sized nanocage 'box'. Now, in an article published
today in Nature Synthesis, researchers from the University of Cambridge
describe how they have built a super-sized nanocage that could be used to
deliver larger drug cargoes. They have built a bigger box.
Simple building blocks
Rational control over the self-assembly of these types of cages generally poses
considerable challenges. So instead of following traditional self-assembly
methods, the team decided to use a simple building block process inspired by
natural biological systems. Using the new method, they were able to build
progressively larger artificial nanocages, with the largest cage having an
enclosed volume greater than 92 cubic nanometres -- the largest ligandenclosed inner cavity volume ever made.
Larger cages have been reported, but they have more open ligand frameworks,
which are not as useful because these cages have not been able to bind
cargoes. Prospective 'guest' molecules slip out between the widely-spaced
bars, unless they are covalently tethered to the 'host' framework.
First author Dr Kai Wu, a postdoctoral researcher in the Nitschke lab in the
Yusuf Hamied Department of Chemistry, said: "The findings of this study are
important because they demonstrate how we are able to create ever-larger
complex, functional structures using simple building blocks."
Larger cargoes
The super-sized nanocages have potential applications in fields such as drug
delivery and biotechnology, where they could be used to deliver larger
therapeutic biomolecules to specific parts of the body.

The researchers also note that the large internal cavities of the nanocages
could serve as a platform for the binding of large biomolecules, such as
hydrophobic membrane proteins or proteases, which could be useful in drug
discovery and development.
Wu said: "Overall, this research expands our understanding of how to create
nanoscale structures and may have practical implications in a variety of fields."
Professor Jonathan Nitschke, who led the research, said: "This work,
sponsored in part by Astex Pharmaceuticals under its Sustaining Innovation
Postdoctoral Programme, aims to have real-world impact in the field of new
drug development."

New pesticide exposure test developed to protect inexperienced cannabis
farmers
Dr. Emanuela Gionfriddo, an assistant professor of analytical chemistry, and
Nipunika H. Godage, a Ph.D. candidate in UToledo's Dr. Nina McClelland
Laboratory for Water Chemistry and Environmental Analysis, published
research in the journal Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry outlining their
groundbreaking method that is able to detect 79 pesticide residues in human
blood plasma at "ultra-trace" levels, or parts per trillion.
"This has the potential to be applied to human exposure studies for the general
public such as exposure through food or contaminated water but, most
importantly, agricultural workers who have a higher potential for acute exposure
to these toxic chemicals, which typically occurs through the skin, with
pesticides then passing into the bloodstream and circulating through the body,"
Gionfriddo said.
Pesticides are widely used in farming to prevent or reduce produce losses
caused by pests and improve the quality of fruits and vegetables, but human
exposure during mixing or application has been reported to cause neurological
disorders, poisoning, cancer, reproductive disruptions, respiratory problems
and chronic kidney diseases among farm workers.
Though pesticides are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
Gionfriddo said the legalization of cannabis recently in several states has led to
"inexperienced" farmers exposing themselves to the harmful chemicals since
those workers are less familiar with pesticide safety equipment and procedures
as well as proper pesticide storage and handling.
The pesticides selected for her study are the most commonly used pesticides
during cannabis cultivation.
Gionfriddo's new testing method uses what's called bio solid-phase
microextraction with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.
"To meet the growing demands of regulatory agencies and routine analysis
laboratories, sample throughput and method tunability is critical," Gionfriddo
said. "Using automated samplers, the preparation time per sample is 1.7minutes."
And as occupational exposure to pesticides can occur at varying concentration
levels, it is important for any method to quantify pesticides at low
concentrations. The new testing method demonstrated higher sensitivity,
precision and accuracy and a drastic reduction in abnormalities compared to
the commonly used approach, known as QuEChERS, which stands for Quick,
Easy, Cheap, Effective, Rugged and Safe but can be labor intensive with
prolonged workflows.
Last week during National Farmworker Awareness Week, the U.S. EPA said
pesticide exposure doesn't only happen when working in the fields. The federal
agency said pesticide take-home exposure can occur when farm workers go
home bearing pesticide residues that may cling to their skin, clothing, hats,
boots, tools, lunch coolers or other items in their work environment. Their
children may then be exposed to these pesticide residues.
"Assessing pesticide exposure quickly and thoroughly is crucial for the health
and safety of workers and their families, to correct malpractices in pesticide
storage and application, and to prevent further exposure," Godage said. "Our
new method can extract and analyze simultaneously a wide variety of
pesticides from human plasma."
To learn more about the U.S. EPA's Occupational Pesticide Safety and Health
program, visit the agency's website (https://www.epa.gov/pesticide-workersafety).

