The world is filled with tiny creatures that find us delicious. 
Bacteria and viruses are the obvious bad guys, drivers of deadly global pandemics and annoying
infections. But the pathogens we haven't had to reckon with as much -- yet -are the fungi.Pathogenic fungi (Candida, Aspergillus, Cryptococcus and others)
are notorious killers of immune-compromised people. But for the most part,
healthy people have not had to worry about them, and the vast majority of the
planet's potentially pathogenic fungi don't do well in the heat of our bodies.
But all that may be about to change.
A new study out of Duke University School of Medicine finds that raised
temperatures cause a pathogenic fungus known as Cryptococcus
deneoformans to turn its adaptative responses into overdrive. This increases its
number of genetic changes, some of which might presumably lead to higher
heat resistance, and others perhaps toward greater disease-causing potential.
Specifically, higher heat makes more of the fungus' transposable elements, or
jumping genes, get up and move around within the fungal DNA, leading to
changes in the way its genes are used and regulated. The findings appeared
Jan. 20 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
"These mobile elements are likely to contribute to adaptation in the
environment and during an infection," said postdoctoral researcher Asiya Gusa
Ph.D. of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology in the Duke School of Medicine.
"This could happen even faster because heat stress speeds up the number of
mutations occurring."
This may ring a bell with viewers of the new HBO series "The Last of Us," where
a dystopian hellscape is precipitated by a heat-adapted fungus that takes over
humans and turns them into zombies. "That's exactly the sort of thing I'm
talking about -- minus the zombie part!" said Gusa who just watched the first
episode and who will join the Duke faculty as an assistant professor later this
year.
"These are not infectious diseases in the communicable sense; we don't
transmit fungi to each other," Gusa said. "But the spores are in the air. We
breathe in spores of fungi all the time and our immune systems are equipped to
fight them."
Fungal spores are generally larger than viruses, so your existing stock of face
masks against Covid would probably be sufficient to stop them. That, and your
body heat, for now.
"Fungal diseases are on the rise, largely because of an increase in the number
of people who have weakened immune systems or underlying health
conditions," Gusa said. But at the same time, pathogenic fungi may be adapting
to warmer temperatures as well.
Working in the lab of Professor Sue Jinks-Robertson, Gusa led research that
focused on three transposable elements that were particularly active under
heat stress in C. deneoformans. But there are easily another 25 or more
transposable elements in that species that could mobilize, she said.
The team used 'long-read' DNA sequencing to see changes that might
otherwise have been missed, Gusa said. Computational analysis allowed them
to map transposons and then see how they had moved. "We have improvedtools now to see these movements that were previously hiding in our blind
spots."
Heat stress sped the mutations up. Following 800 generations of growth in
laboratory medium, the rate of transposon mutations was five-times higher in
fungi raised at body temperature (37 Celsius) compared with fungi raised at
30C.

