Neolithic ceramics reveal dairy from milk of multiple species
The research suggests that early farmers reduced the lactose content in milk
by making it into cheese or other dairy products like yoghurt, and used dairy
products from a number of different animals, such as cows, sheep or goats.
Lactose intolerance was a common condition in almost everyone in Europe
during the Neolithic and until the Late Bronze Age when the genetic mutation
became widespread, enabling adults to produce lactase, the enzyme which
breaks down lactose in the body.
Researchers looked at the practice of dairy processing in the Late Neolithic,
identifying high curd-content residues in pottery indicating cheesemaking, and
revealing that multiple dairy species were utilised.
Dr Harry Robson, from the Department of Archaeology at the University of York,
said: "These results contribute significantly to our understanding of the use of
dairy products by some of the earliest farmers of Central Europe.
"Whilst previous research has shown that dairy products were widely available
in some European regions during this period, here, for the first time, we have
clear evidence for a diversified dairy herd, including cattle, sheep and goats,
from the analysis of ceramics."
The scientists and archaeologists from the Universities of York, Cambridge,
Toruń and Kraków used a multi-stranded proteomic and lipid-analysis approach
to investigate ceramics and deposits on their surface, from the site of
Sławęcinek in central Poland.
The new development provides evidence that cheesemaking (and other curdenriching dairy processing) can be directly detected by scrutinising the
proportion of curd proteins, by comparing proteomic data. The results are also
the first of their kind in Europe.
Despite widespread lactose intolerance in the period, there is evidence of dairy
being consumed during the Neolithic, such as animal bones with kill patterns
expected for dairy herds, dairy lipids in ceramic vessels, and dairy proteins in
ancient dental calculus or plaque.
Lead author, Miranda Evans, PhD student at Cambridge's Department of
Archaeology, said: "The proteomic results showed that the ancient residues
closely resembled both the modern cheesemaking residues and cheese itself
and not whole milk. This reveals that the people of Sławęcinek practised
cheesemaking or another form of curd-enriching dairy processing."
Evidence of multiple species used for cheesemaking was backed up by the
presence of both cow and sheep or goat bones on the site."

Dr Jasmine Lundy from the Department of Archaeology, said: "This study
highlights how complementary lipid and proteomic analyses are, particularly in
understanding the use of the ceramic vessel over time. From this, for example,
we could see that not only did some techniques waterproof or seal the
ceramics but also what foods were being produced in them."


