Why chocolate feels so good -- it is all down to lubrication
Scientists have decoded the physical process that takes place in the mouth
when a piece of chocolate is eaten, as it changes from a solid into a smooth
emulsion that many people find totally irresistible. By analyzing each of the
steps, the interdisciplinary research team hope it will lead to the development
of a new generation of luxury chocolates that will have the same feel and
texture but will be healthier to consume. During the moments it is in the mouth,
the chocolate sensation arises from the way the chocolate is lubricated, either
from ingredients in the chocolate itself or from saliva or a combination of the
two. Fat plays a key function almost immediately when a piece of chocolate is in
contact with the tongue. After that, solid cocoa particles are released and they
become important in terms of the tactile sensation, so fat deeper inside the
chocolate plays a rather limited role and could be reduced without having an
impact on the feel or sensation of chocolate.By analysing each of the steps, the
interdisciplinary research team at the University of Leeds hope it will lead to thedevelopment of a new generation of luxury chocolates that will have the same
feel and texture but will be healthier to consume.
During the moments it is in the mouth, the chocolate sensation arises from the
way the chocolate is lubricated, either from ingredients in the chocolate itself
or from saliva or a combination of the two.
Fat plays a key function almost immediately when a piece of chocolate is in
contact with the tongue. After that, solid cocoa particles are released and they
become important in terms of the tactile sensation, so fat deeper inside the
chocolate plays a rather limited role and could be reduced without having an
impact on the feel or sensation of chocolate.
Anwesha Sarkar, Professor of Colloids and Surfaces in the School of Food
Science and Nutrition at Leeds, said: "Lubrication science gives mechanistic
insights into how food actually feels in the mouth. You can use that knowledge
to design food with better taste, texture or health benefits.
"If a chocolate has 5% fat or 50% fat it will still form droplets in the mouth and
that gives you the chocolate sensation. However, it is the location of the fat in
the make-up of the chocolate which matters in each stage of lubrication, and
that has been rarely researched.
Dr Siavash Soltanahmadi, from the School of Food Science and Nutrition at
Leeds and the lead researcher in the study, said: "With the understanding of
the physical mechanisms that happen as people eat chocolate, we believe that
a next generation of chocolate can be developed that offers the feel and
sensation of high-fat chocolate yet is a healthier choice.
"Our research opens the possibility that manufacturers can intelligently design
dark chocolate to reduce the overall fat content.
"We believe dark chocolate can be produced in a gradient-layered architecture
with fat covering the surface of chocolates and particles to offer the sought
after self-indulging experience without adding too much fat inside the body of
the chocolate."
Revenue from chocolate sales in the UK is forecast to grow over the next five
years, according to research from the business intelligence agency MINTEL.
Sales are expected to grow 13% between 2022 and 2027 to reach £6.6 billion.
The researchers believe the physical techniques used in the study could be
applied to the investigation of other foodstuffs that undergo a phase change,
where a substance is transformed from a solid to a liquid, such as ice-cream,
margarine or cheese.
This project received funding from the European Research Council under the
European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme.

